src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/01_INTRO.md, before:

---
slug: chapter-01-intro
number: 01.0
title: Introduction
status: draft
updated: 2025-10-29
---

This is in fact something of a workbook, something of a sermon, and something of a mirror; but not intended to **give** you the right answer to anything. The basic conviction of the spirit is that you **already know all of this**.
You just need to be invited to remember it, and practice it, in ways that reorient -- that is, repent -- your heart and mind.

This first set of spreads is focused on the ideas of power and leadership. Each spread juxtaposes a common or received teaching in the world of Christianity or greater society against an excerpt of Jesus' words. These are followed by reflective questions and a small practice you can use to actively experience what Jesus meant in his words. The aim is to invite you to take part in meaningful self-experiments that test how gospel-shaped practices bring about the changes we wish to embody.

Below is a map to the three spreads in Chapter 01 and how to use them together over a week:

::: info
Days 1–3: One spread per day:

01.1 Greatness Redefined (Matt 20:25–28; Mark 10:42–45)

* Focus: Shift from top-down control to bottom-up service.
* Try today: Choose one hidden act that reduces someone else's burden.

01.2 Authority vs. Status (Matt 23:8–12)

* Focus: Untangles titles and true authority.
* Try tomorrow: Drop one honor-seeking habit; elevate someone else's contribution.

01.3 Serving Presence (Luke 22:25–27)

* Focus: Presence as service rather than being served.
* Try next: Take the lower role in one interaction you'd usually reserve for a junior.

Days 4–6: Repeat any one practice daily; note what shifts in you and your context.

Day 7: Review your notes; name one assumption about power that changed. If you go to a church service, notice how these ideas might show up there or change how you hear it.
:::

Editorial notes:
Scripture quotations are ASV (public domain).  
Spread 01.3 cites Luke 22:25–27, delivered at a private meal to the Twelve

Commit message:

modified:   src/manuscript/00_05_TOC.md 	modified:   src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/01_INTRO.md 	modified:   src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_01.md 	modified:   src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_02.md 	modified:   src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_03.md

src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/01_INTRO.md, after:

---
slug: chapter-01-intro
number: 01.0
title: Introduction
status: draft
updated: 2025-10-29
---

This is something of a workbook, something of a sermon, and something of a mirror; but not intended to give you the right answer to anything. Jesus and Satan *both* accuse and the spirit convicts us of having **already known all of this**; and yet we must remember it, and practice it, in ways that reorient -- that is to say repent the heart and mind. It's arranged in a set of chapters that are sectioned into "spreads", which are the workbook portion.

This first set of spreads is focused on the ideas of power and leadership. Each spread juxtaposes a common or received teaching in the world of Christianity or greater society against an excerpt of Jesus' words. These are followed by reflective questions and a small practice you can use to actively experience what Jesus meant in his words. The aim is to invite you to take part in meaningful self-experiments that test how gospel-shaped practices bring about the changes we wish to embody.

Below is a map to the three spreads in Chapter 01 and how to use them together over a week:

::: aside
Days 1–3: One spread per day:

>01.1 Greatness Redefined (Matt 20:25–28; Mark 10:42–45)
>
>* Focus: Shift from top-down control to bottom-up service.
>* Try today: Choose one hidden act that reduces someone else's burden.
>
>01.2 Authority vs. Status (Matt 23:8–12)
>
>* Focus: Untangles titles and true authority.
>* Try tomorrow: Drop one honor-seeking habit; elevate someone else's contribution.
>
>01.3 Serving Presence (Luke 22:25–27)
>
>* Focus: Presence as service rather than being served.
>* Try next: Take the lower role in one interaction you'd usually reserve for a junior.

Days 4–6: Repeat any one practice daily; note what shifts in you and your context.

Day 7: Review your notes; name one assumption about power that changed. If you go to a church service, notice how these ideas might show up there or change how you hear it.
:::
