src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_01.md, before:

---
slug: power-greatness-redefined
number: 01.1
title: Greatness Redefined
status: draft
right_sources: ["Matt 20:25–28 (ASV)", "Mark 10:42–45 (ASV)"]
left_sources:
  - {title: Leadership maxim about exercising authority to maintain order, type: paraphrase, permission: none}
updated: 2025-10-11
public_only_check: ok
---

## Received Teaching
> "Leaders must exercise authority to maintain order."
- Source: Representative leadership maxim
- Context: Emphasizes top-down control and enforcement for stability.

## Jesus’ Public Words
> "Ye know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. Not so shall it be among you: but whosoever would become great among you shall be your minister; and whosoever would be first among you shall be your servant: even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many."
- Reference: Matthew 20:25–28 (ASV); cf. Mark 10:42–45 (ASV)
- Context: Public setting en route to Jerusalem; teaching within hearing of others beyond the Twelve.
- Editorial: Uses ASV (public-domain). Left-sources are paraphrases (permission: none). Verify any verbatim left-side quotes; mark permission: pending if found.

## Tension
From ruling over to serving under.

## Reflection
1. Observe: Which verbs of power appear in your week? Where do you “lord it over”? 
2. Empathize: Imagine the experience of the least powerful person in your context this week.
3. Act: Choose one hidden service that reduces someone else’s burden.

## Practice
Each day, do one unnoticed service for a lower‑status colleague or neighbor; do not announce it.

## Notes
- Reference: Matt 20:25–28 (ASV)
- Context: Public setting en route to Jerusalem; teaching within hearing of others beyond the Twelve.
- Editorial: Uses ASV (public-domain). Left-sources are paraphrases (permission: none). Verify any verbatim left-side quotes; mark permission: pending if found.

Commit message:

feat: Major typesetting improvements - extended markdown, custom boxes, and footer-based footnotes
- Extended markdown support with 15+ Pandoc extensions (tables, footnotes, strikeout, etc.)
- Added custom fenced div boxes (warning, note, info, tip, caution, example, aside)
- Implemented footer-based footnote system for professional book layout
- Configured proper book margins with twoside layout (inner/outer)
- Added rounded corners to blockquote boxes
- Increased column separation in two-column spreads
- Footnotes now appear in footer on outer edge with justified text
- Created comprehensive MARKDOWN_FEATURES.md documentation
- Added three new Lua filters: custom_divs, footnotes_to_footer, preserve_footnote_numbers
- Updated all build scripts and templates for new features

src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_01.md, after:

---
slug: power-greatness-redefined
number: 01.1
title: Greatness Redefined
status: draft
right_sources: ["Matt 20:25–28 (ASV)", "Mark 10:42–45 (ASV)"]
left_sources:
  - {title: Leadership maxim about exercising authority to maintain order, type: paraphrase, permission: none}
updated: 2025-10-11
public_only_check: ok
---

## Received Teaching
::: aside
"Leaders must exercise authority to maintain order."[^0]
:::

## Jesus' Public Words
::: aside
"Ye know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. Not so shall it be among you: but whosoever would become great among you shall be your minister; and whosoever would be first among you shall be your servant: even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many."[^1]
:::
 
## Tension
Ruling over versus serving under.

## Reflection
1. Which words of power appear in your week? Where do you "lord it over" someone?
2. Actively imagine the experience of the least powerful person in your world this week.
3. Act: Choose one **hidden** service that reduces someone else’s burden.

## Practice
Each day, do one unnoticed or uncredited service for a lower-status or lower-powered colleague or neighbor; do not announce it.

## Notes
\
\
\
\

---

[^0]: Source: Representative leadership maxim; paraphrased from common sayings about authority and order.
[^1]: Source: Matthew 20:25–28 (ASV); see also Mark 10:42–45 (ASV)\ 
Context: Public setting en route to Jerusalem; teaching within hearing of others beyond the Twelve.
