src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_02.md, before:

---
slug: power-authority-vs-status
number: 01.2
title: Authority vs. Status
status: draft
right_sources: ["Matt 23:8–12 (ASV)"]
left_sources:
  - {title: Titles confer spiritual authority, type: paraphrase, permission: none}
updated: 2025-10-10
public_only_check: ok
---

## Received Teaching
> "Titles confer spiritual authority."
- Source: Common practice of honorifics and seats of honor
- Context: Status markers assumed to equal legitimacy.

## Jesus’ Public Words
> "But be not ye called Rabbi: for one is your teacher, and all ye are brethren. And call no man your father on the earth: for one is your Father, even he who is in heaven. Neither be ye called masters: for one is your master, even the Christ. But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be humbled; and whosoever shall humble himself shall be exalted."
- Reference: Matt 23:8
201312 (ASV)
- Context: Spoken to the crowds and to his disciples.
- Editorial: Uses ASV (public-domain). Left-sources are paraphrases (permission: none). Verify any verbatim left-side quotes; mark permission: pending if found.

## Tension
Status titles vs. leveling language of siblings.

## Reflection
1. Observe: Where do titles shape how you treat or are treated by others?
2. Empathize: Who is overlooked when attention flows to titles?
3. Act: Lower yourself in one interaction this week; practice listening first.

## Practice
Drop one honor-seeking habit (title usage, preferred seat, signature flair) for a week and elevate another’s contribution.

## Notes
- Public crowd context per Matthew 23:1.

Commit message:

feat: Major typesetting improvements - extended markdown, custom boxes, and footer-based footnotes
- Extended markdown support with 15+ Pandoc extensions (tables, footnotes, strikeout, etc.)
- Added custom fenced div boxes (warning, note, info, tip, caution, example, aside)
- Implemented footer-based footnote system for professional book layout
- Configured proper book margins with twoside layout (inner/outer)
- Added rounded corners to blockquote boxes
- Increased column separation in two-column spreads
- Footnotes now appear in footer on outer edge with justified text
- Created comprehensive MARKDOWN_FEATURES.md documentation
- Added three new Lua filters: custom_divs, footnotes_to_footer, preserve_footnote_numbers
- Updated all build scripts and templates for new features

src/manuscript/CHAPTER_01/SPREAD_02.md, after:

---
slug: power-authority-vs-status
number: 01.2
title: Authority vs. Status
status: draft
right_sources: ["Matt 23:8–12 (ASV)"]
left_sources:
  - {title: Titles confer spiritual authority, type: paraphrase, permission: none}
updated: 2025-10-10
public_only_check: ok
---

## Received Teaching
::: aside 
"Titles confer spiritual authority."[^0]
:::


## Jesus’ Public Words
::: aside
"But be not ye called Rabbi: for one is your teacher, and all ye are brethren. And call no man your father on the earth: for one is your Father, even he who is in heaven. Neither be ye called masters: for one is your master, even the Christ. But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be humbled; and whosoever shall humble himself shall be exalted."[^1]
:::

---

## Tension
Status titles vs. leveling language of siblings.

## Reflection
1. Observe: Where do titles shape how you treat or are treated by others?
2. Empathize: Who is overlooked when attention flows to titles?
3. Act: Lower yourself in one interaction this week; practice listening first.

## Practice
Drop one honor-seeking habit (title usage, preferred seat, signature flair) for a week and elevate another’s contribution.

## Notes

---

[^0]:Source: Common practice of honorifics and seats of honor\
Context: Status markers assumed to equal legitimacy.

[^1]:**Matthew 23:8–12**, American Standard Version\
Context: Spoken to the crowds and to his disciples.\
